3.2 Interfaces
Infrared interface
Measurement data can be sent to a Testo printer via the infrared interface on
the head of the instrument.
USB interface
The mains unit (accessory part) can be connected to the head of the
instrument via the USB interface to power the instrument.
Instruments with a memory: Measurement/instrument data can be exchanged
with a PC via the USB interface.
Probe socket(s)
Plug-in measuring probes can be connected via the probe socket(s) on the
base of the instrument. The instrument is a HighPower device, possibly an
additional USB-Hub is required!
Radio module (accessory part)
Radio probes may only be used in countries in which they have been Type
Approved (see application infor mation of the radio probe).
Up to three radio probes can be connected via the radio module.
3.3 Voltage supply
Voltage is supplied via three mignon batteries (included in delivery) or
rechargeable batteries or through a mains unit (accessory part). It is not
possible to charge rechargeable batteries in the instrument.
When operating the instrument with the mains unit, insert batteries in order
to avoid switching off the instrument in case of a power interruption.
3. Product description
9 de fr es it pt sv nl ?? ??
4. Commissioning
This chapter describes the steps required to commission the product.
➣ Inserting batteries/rechargeable batteries and a radio module (accessory
part):
1 Undo the two screws on the rear of the instrument and lift off the battery
compartment cover.
2 Insert batteries/rechargeable batteries (3x mignon) into the battery
compartment. Observe the polarity!
3 Push the radio module (accessory part) into the radio module
compartment until it engages in place. Note the guide groove.
4 Replace the battery compartment cover, press down and secure by
tightening the two screws.
4. Commissioning
10
5. Operation
This chapter describes the steps that are executed frequently when using the
product.
5.1 Connecting a probe
Plug-in probes
Plug-in probes must be connected before the measuring instrument is
switched on so that they are recognised by the instrument.
Insert the connector of the probe into the probe socket of the measuring
instrument.
Radio probes
Radio probes may only be used in countries in which they have been Type
Approved (see application infor mation of the radio probe).
A radio module (accessory part) is required for the use of radio probes. The
radio module must be connected before the measuring instrument is switched
on so that it is recognised by the measuring instrument.
Each radio probe has a probe ID (identification number) which must be set in
configuration mode.
➫ See chapter PROBE, p. 15.
5.2 Switching on/off
➣ Switching the instrument on:
Press .
- Only 735-2: If probe adjustment data are stored in the instrument and
activated, Adjustm. active appears in the display (duration: 2s).
➫ See chapter PROBE, p. 15.
- Measurement view is opened: The current reading is displayed, or
---- lights up if no reading is available.
Instruments with a memory: The activated location is displayed
(topmost line).
-or5. Operation
11de fr es it pt sv nl ?? ??
The instrument is switched on for the first time, a reset was carried out or
the power supply was interrupted for a lengthy period of time:
- The Language function is opened.
➫ See the chapter LANGUAGE, p. 16.
➣ Switching the instrument off:
Press and hold (for approx. 2s) until the display goes out.
5.3 Display light
➣ Switching the display light on/off:
✓ The instrument is switched on.
Press .
5. Operation
12
6. Setting the instrument
This chapter describes the steps that are required in order to adapt the
measuring instrument for specific measuring tasks.
6.1 Configuration menu
The basic settings for the measuring instrument are performed in the
configuration menu.
➣ Opening the configuration menu:
✓ The instrument is in measurement view.
Press and hold (approx. 2s) until config. is displayed.
Press to go one menu level back. To leave the configuration menu,
press several times until the instrument changes to measurement view.
6.1.1 Profile
The instrument has predefined measurement profiles that are tailored to
specific areas of application.
The profile setting influences the following points in measurement mode:
· Assignment of the function buttons
· Number of predefined functions
· Structure of the main menu
All functions are available in the standard profile. In the application-specific
measurement profiles, the available functions are reduced to only those that are
needed to ensure speedier access.
➣ Setting a profile:
✓ The configuration menu is open, config. is displayed.
1 Profile ➝ .
2 Select the desired profile with / and confirm with .
ESC
ESC
OK
OK
6. Setting the instrument
13de fr es it pt sv nl ?? ??
6.1.2 Units
Predefined systems and individual setting options:
Parameter ISO system US system Individual setting options
Temperature °C °F °C, °F
➣ Setting units:
✓ The configuration menu is open, config. is displayed.
1 Units ➝ .
2 Press / ISO/US (to set the system) or a parameter (to set
individually) and confirm with .
3 Set the system of units or the desired unit with / and confirm
with .
6.1.3 Device
Instrument data
➣ Displaying instrument data:
✓ The configuration menu is open, config. is displayed.
1 Device ➝ ➝ Inst.data ➝ .
- The firmware version and the serial number of the instrument are
displayed.
Date/ Time
➣ Setting the date/time:
✓ The configuration menu is open, config. is displayed.
1 Device ➝ ➝ date/time ➝ .
2 Use / to set the value for year and confirm with .
3 Set the other values as described in step 2.
OK
OK
OK
OK OK
OK OK
OK
6. Setting the instrument
14
Battery type
To ensure that the battery capacity is displayed correctly, the battery type used
must be set.
➣ Setting the battery type:
✓ The configuration menu is open, config. is displayed.
1 Device ➝ ➝ Bat-type ➝ .
2 Press / Battery or ReBa and confirm with .
Auto OFF
If Auto OFF is switched on, the instrument switches itself off automatically after
10min if no button is pressed. Exception: Cyclical printing (instruments without
a memory) or a measuring program (instruments with a memory) is active.
➣ Switching Auto OFF on/off:
✓ The configuration menu is open, config. is displayed.
1 Device ➝ ➝ Auto OFF ➝ .
2 Press / to select On or Off and confirm with .
Reset
When a reset is carried out, the instrument is reset to the default settings, all
settings/ data are deleted. Exception: Language, Date/ Time.
➣ Resetting:
✓ The configuration menu is open, config. is displayed.
1 Device ➝ ➝ reset ➝ .
2 Reset with or cancel the reset with .
Setting min. / max. printing function
If pr MinMaxAuto is activated, minimum and maximum values are also printed
with the measurement readings.
➣ Switching off pr MinMax:
✓ The configuration menu is open, Config. is displayed.
1 Device ➝ ➝ pr MinMax ➝ .
2 Choose On or Off with / and confirm with . OK
OK OK
OK
OK OK
OK
OK OK
OK ESC
OK OK
6. Setting the instrument
15de fr es it pt sv nl ?? ??
6.1.4 Probe
RadioC
Radio probes may only be used in countries in which they have been Type
Approved (see application infor mation of the radio probe).
A radio module (accessory part) is required for the use of radio probes. The
instrument can establish a connection with a maximum of three radio probes.
Each radio probe has a probe ID (RF ID). This consists of the last 3 digits of the
serial no. and the position of the slide switch (H or L) in the radio probe.
➣ Setting up a radio probe:
✓ A radio module (accessory part) is inserted in the instrument.
➫ See chapter COMMISSIONING, p. 9.
✓ The configuration menu is open, config. is displayed.
✓ The radio probe is switched on and the transfer rate is set to 2 readings
per second (see the advice on using the radio probe).
1 Probe ➝ ➝ RadioC ➝ .
2 Press / to select the desired channel no. for the radio probe (P.1,
P.2 or P.3) and confirm with .
- The instrument searches for switched-on radio probes in the receiving
range.
- The probe IDs of the radio probes found are displayed.
If no radio probes were found, this may be because of the following:
· The radio probe is not switched on or the battery of the radio probe is
spent.
· The radio probe is outside the range of the measuring instrument.
· Sources of interference are influencing the radio transmission (e.g.
reinforced concrete, metal objects, walls or other barriers between
transmitter and receiver, other transmitters of the same frequency,
strong electromagnetic fields).
If necessary, rectify the possible causes of the fault in radio
transmission.
Alternatively, the probe ID can also be entered manually.
MAN ➝ Press / to enter the probe ID.
OK
OK OK
6. Setting the instrument
16
3 Press / to select the probe that is to be assigned to the chosen
channel no.
4 Assign the radio probe to the chosen channel no. with or exit the
function with , without changing the probe configuration..
Te-Type
The probe characteristic curves stored in the instrument can be set for the
probe type used.
➣ Setting probe type:
✓ The configuration menu is open, Config. is displayed.
1 Probe ➝ ➝ Te-Type ➝ .
2 Select the desired probe type with / and confirm with .
Adjustment (735-2 only)
The function is only available if probe adjustment data are stored in the
instrument. The PC adjustment software testo 735-2 is required to store probe
adjustment data in the instrument. See documentation on this software.
Probe adjustment data stored in the instrument can be activated/deactivated.
Information on the adjustment data can be displayed.
➣ Activating/deactivating adjustment data:
✓ The configuration menu is open, config. is displayed.
1 Probe ➝ ➝ Adjustm. ➝ .
2 Select On or Off with / and confim with .
3 If On is selected: With / , select the probe socket to which the
adjusted probe is connected, and confirm with .
- The activated adjustment data are displayed for your information.
6.1.5 Language
➣ Setting the language:
✓ The configuration menu is open, config. is displayed.
1 Language ➝ .
2 Select the desired language with / and confirm with .
OK
OK
OK OK
ESC
OK
OK
OK OK
OK
OK
6. Setting the instrument
17de fr es it pt sv nl ?? ??
6.2 Main menu
Settings by which the measuring instrument can be adapted to the particular
measuring task are performed in the main menu.
The instrument has predefined measurement profiles that are tailored to
specific areas of application.
➫ See the chapter PROFILE, p. 12.
The profile setting influences the number of available functions and the
structure of the main menu.
The method described in this chapter for calling up the functions in the main
menu relates to the Standard profile setting. If a different profile is set, the
method for calling up individual functions may change or the function may
not be available in that particular profile. Some functions are only available
when a probe is connected or a wireless probe is switched on and
registered.